:author: OSIA Technical Authority
:project: OSIA
:dest: OSIA Community
:version: 
:title: OSIA v7.1 Release Notes
:date: 12/01/2026
:company: SIA

OSIA v7.1
=========

In a Nutshell
-------------

OSIA v7.1 includes:

- `PR#79 <https://github.com/SecureIdentityAlliance/osia/pull/79>`_: Add support of confidentiality and integrity
- `PR#98 <https://github.com/SecureIdentityAlliance/osia/pull/98>`_: Update of Credential Management Services based on Specathon output
- `PR#80 <https://github.com/SecureIdentityAlliance/osia/pull/80>`_: Enhancements to Biometric Services
- `PR#97 <https://github.com/SecureIdentityAlliance/osia/pull/77>`_: Callback management in abis.yaml

The `OSIA component diagram <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/_images/components.svg>`_ was updated during the Specathon.
As part of this, the *ID Usage/Relying party* interface was renamed to *Third Party Services* and the
*Physical Credential Personalization* was added.

Some text and document structure were revised based on our twin standard X.1281.

.. raw:: latex

    \clearpage

Details of Changes in OSIA v7.1
-------------------------------

New Use Cases
"""""""""""""

- Sensitive data can be signed and encrypted from end to end. This is described in `§3.4 <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/03%20-%20security.html#confidentiality-and-integrity>`_.
  The solution, based on existing standards (RFC7515, RFC7516, and RFC5652), is applied
  in four interfaces (Enrollment, Population Registry Management, Biometrics, Credentials Services).
  Two structures were added:

  - ``encryption``: is a structure identifiying which part of the JSON payload is encrypted and how.
  - ``integrity``: is a structure identifiying which part of the JSON payload is signed and how. It contains the hash and signature.

- Verifiable credentials are accepted as supporting document. This is added explicitly with examples in
  `§6.4.1.1 <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/technical/enrollment.html#patch--v1-enrollments-enrollmentId>`_ and
  `§6.5.1 <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/technical/pr.html#patch--v1-persons-personId-identities-identityId>`_

New Interfaces
""""""""""""""

- The *Physical Credential Personalization* interface was introduced in
  `chapter §2.1 <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/02%20-%20functional.html#building-blocks-standardized-definition-and-scope>`_.
  This interface will be defined in a future release.

New Services
""""""""""""

- In *Biometrics*:

  - `readTaskStatus <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/technical/abis.html#get--v1-tasks-taskId-status>`_ was added to get
    the status of asynchronous tasks.
  - `redeliverTaskResult <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/technical/abis.html#post--v1-tasks-taskId-redeliver>`_ was added
    to resend the result of an asynchronous task.

- In *Credential Services*:

  - `updateCredential <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/technical/cms.html#put--v1-credentials-credentialId>`_ was added. It can be
    used to update some of the attributes of a credential.

New Parameters
""""""""""""""

- an optional parameter ``serviceLevel`` was added to Biometric search services. It can be used for example to specify a response time target.
- Optional support of ISO39794 was added

Other Changes per Interfaces
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

From `abis.yaml <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/abis.yaml>`_:

- Fix ambiguities:

  - HTTP code 200 and 204 were both specified for updateEncounter. Remove 204
  - make mandatory requestBody (considered mandatory in qualification test cases)
- Add timestamps (creation date, last update date) in encounter data model
- Accept ``ALL`` in readGalleryContent
- Add galleryId in response of ``identify`` (needed when making a search on ``ALL`` gallery)
- For services returning a very long list (readGalleryContent), support as alternative the csv format
  (more efficient for size, parsing time, etc.)
- encounterId is no longer readonly in BiometricData (can be set to any value when the encounter is updated)
- updateEncounterGalleries: add constraints on the new list of galleries: at least one gallery and no duplicate
- make galleries mandatory in Encounter structure

.. raw:: latex

    \clearpage

From `cms.yaml <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/cms.yaml>`_:

- Add attributes to better define the credentialProfile (credentialProfileVersion, credentialProfileSubtype, numberOfPages)
  For flexibility it can defined either in the request/credential or in the credential.

From `pr.yaml <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/pr.yaml>`_:

- identityId not read only in BiometricData (can be set to any value when the identity is updated)
- Add timestamps (creation date, last update date) in identity data model
- Accept ``ALL`` in readGalleryContent
- For services returning a very long list (readGalleryContent), support as alternative the csv format
  (more efficient for size, parsing time, etc.)

Cosmetic Changes
----------------

- Layout of document has been changed to be closer to ITU X-1281

  - The chapter *OSIA Versions & Referencing* (previously §4) has been moved to the `appendix I <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/appendices/versions.html>`_
  - Appendixes and annexes were clearly separated, as per ITU standards
  - Appendix `References <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/annexes/references.html>`_ was added to list of references (RFC, ISO, etc.)
  - `Bibliography <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/bibliography.html#bibliography>`_ was added
  - The *Problem Statement* (`§1.1 <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/01%20-%20intro.html#problem-statement-lack-of-interoperability-in-identity-systems>`_)
    has been updated from X.1281
  - The *Document overview* (previously §1.5) has been removed
  - The *Convention and Typographical Rules* (now `§1.5 <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/01%20-%20intro.html#convention-and-typographical-rules>`_)
    has been updated from X.1281
  - The *Revision History* (previously §1.7) has been removed

- The figure *Building Blocks identified as part of the identity ecosystem*
  (`figure 2.1 <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/02%20-%20functional.html#building-blocks-standardized-definition-and-scope>`_)
  was updated to better visualize the four domains considered by OSIA (Enrollment, Identity Management,
  Credentials Management, and External Services)

  - Names *ID Usage*, *ID Usage Services* and *Relying Party API* have been harmonized to *Third Party Services*:

    - The functional description in `§4.8 <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/05%20-%20interfaces.html#third-party-services>`_
      was updated.
    - The building blocks description in `§5.1.7 <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/06%20-%20building%20blocks.html#third-party-services>`_
      was updated.
    - The technical description in `§6.8 <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/technical/3rdparty.html>`_
      was updated, as well as the name of the OpenAPI file describing this interface.
  - Name *Digital Credential Issuance & Distribution System* has been changed to *Digital Credential Issuance*

- The section *Use Cases* (`§2.3 <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/02%20-%20functional.html#use-cases-how-to-use-project>`_)
  includes some minor text updates and clarifications.
- In `§5.1 <https://osia.readthedocs.io/en/v7.1/06%20-%20building%20blocks.html#building-blocks-high-level-functionalities>`_,
  the *UIN Generator* section has been moved up, closer to the *Enrollment* section
- Fonts and colors were changed for the HTML rendering

